 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

Hints for Composers
 -- Pulse

Well, I'm not the best person to ask for hints, but here are a few anyway.

1) Never release your first song. There are very few people who are gifted
   enough to really make a quality song the first time - it's all practice
   and experience! Once you *HAVE* finished a song, listen to it a couple
   of days after... see whether you can view it from another point of view.

2) For channel echoes, use the Mxx command in a second column - this will
   save you from adjusting volume related effects (ie. you can leave all the
   Dxx commands alone, and it'll sound right)

3) Don't be afraid to create multiple instruments from the same sample! The
   reason for why I created instruments the way I did was so that you could
   have different *articulations* of the same sample. You can achieve this
   by playing around with the envelopes, fadeout, NNA - whatever.

4) Listen to other tracked music. Try and learn how other composers have
   achieved the sound they did. Experiment yourself.

5) Start by writing music that *YOU* really like listening to - don't try and
   write am orchestral piece if you don't listen to it - it'll show.

6) Take the time to tune all your samples as accurately as possible! To do
   this, play a long, clear, looped sample, then move to another channel
   (using '.') and tune ALL your other samples to this one sample (so they
   all have the same reference). Many potentially excellent modules have
   been spoilt because they were poorly tuned. Of course, this doesn't
   count the cases where samples are intentionally slightly sharp or flat
   for effect (which should be the rarity instead of a rule).

7) Try to avoid having too many samples at central panning - if you modify
   the initial panning - you should be able to 'fill' out the sound with
   very little extra effort. Or perhaps if you use instruments, you may
   want to play around with instrument's default panning...
   Pitch pan separation also provides a very convenient way to achieve a
   nice pan.

8) To find the 'perfect' loop:

     a) If you have a GUS/IW, first turn the loop off, then reload all GUS
        samples (so that their entire waveform is loaded).
     b) Now, select either a forwards or ping pong loop. Only select forwards
        if you have a sample which has the same amplitude at both ends. If
        you have a sample which has vibrato incorporated into the sample, then
        you'll probably find ping pong loops inappropriate. If the sample has
        an obvious reoccuring shape to it's waveform, try to account for that
        when you select your initial guess at a loop.
     c) Play a note at a MUCH higher pitch than you'd normally play it at.
        Then, hold down '+' (or '-') on on of the loop boundaries to find a
        region of lowest clicking. Then adjust it carefully (one byte at a
        time) until you find the best loop location. You will normally need
        to change both beginning and end points of a ping pong loop to find
        a nice loop, whereas forwards loops usually only require either loop
        end or beginning to be modified.
     d) Now that you have a decent loop at this pitch, decrease the pitch
        (typically by an octave)
     e) Repeat steps (c) and (d) until you have a nice loop at the pitch that
        that sample is played at.
     f) Once you've finished and if you're using a GUS, press Ctrl-G (to
        reload the Gravis' samples) and do a final check that you have an
        appropriate loop.

   This method works very well MOST of the time - don't forget that the '+'
   and '-' keys can be used to easily modify the loop - and the changed loop
   is taken into account when you change it (ie. you don't need to replay the
   sample).

9) If you want to make a song realistic, try to imagine how the instrument
   would be played. Pretend you are a musician when you write a part..
   Also, if you use an instrument such as a piano, try to use more than a
   single piano note - a real piano will ALWAYS have more than one note
   playing at a time - use some chords, etc.

10) For a nice fill to the sound, try to balance the usage of low and high
    frequencies. Songs with too much bass and too little treble sound rough,
    songs with too much treble and too little bass sound insubstantial.

 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

Hints for New Composers
-- John Hawksley (a.k.a. Greebo)

1)  Listen!

2)  Spend a day figuring out every feature of the tracker.
    Yes, I'm talking about all the effects and all the keys.
    ST3 is widely acknowledged to be a bitch to learn, but is (sorry,
    *was*) the most  powerful tracker out.  Once you have all the
    keys and functions sorted, you'll be ripping around IT's in
    no time.  You can leave the advanced instrument stuff for now.

3)  Listen to other tracks, find out how the nice-sounding bits are
    done. (ie look at the effects and volume/pan column).

4)  Be different. A lot of .MODs are in the same style. Sure, if you
    like this and feel comfortable with it, then go for it! But if you
    want to create a new feel -- do that too.  People are always ready
    to try new styles.  I personaly enjoy arranging (that covers
    a lot of styles) but you might like composing rock tracks, for
    instance.  So do it!

5)  Samples.  Be selective.  Sort all your samples into directories.
    If you have an editor, the trim thein sample; try to remove the
    noise or click at the start.  Remember -- samples are the building
    blocks from which we craft music.  If the samples are bad,
    the music will be too.  

6)  Tune the samples!  When you rip a sample or create one yourself
    try to do it at the same pitch, or tune it (using the speed value)
    so that everything is uniform. This will save much hair-pulling
    later as you try to figure out why half the piece seems to be
    in G# major and half is in Dflat minor.

6)  Chords.  Originaly, people used to sample whole chords to save
    sample space.  Now we've got this wonderful IT with it's gazillions
    of channels.  From ST3 onwards, I have been contructing chords
    from notes because I had the space to do so.  The sound is better
    and is more of a professional approach.  
    However (there's always a 'but'): be very careful! If you decide
    to construct a chord rather than use a single sample, some
    musicianship is required. Simple major chords are easy, but 
    inversions really add to a piece.  If you are able to do it this
    way (look at some piano parts to any of my stuff, for instance),
    you'll get s professional, crafted sound.  But it does take 
    a long time before you'll get a smooth flowing part.

7)  Saving.  Okay, so IT hasn't crashed on me yet, but when (if) it
    does, I'm not going to loose an hours work.  Save regularly.
    Never use IT or ST3 under the GUI in 95 and under Windows 3.1;
    I found that occaisionaly, windows would do some swapping while
    ST3 was saving and the module would be corrupt; but ST3 said
    it was saved ok. Lesson learnt.

8)  Releasing.  FTP sites are hard to come by these days.  Probably
    the best method of release is to uuencode your work and
    post it to alt.binaries.sounds.mods newsgroup. 


Hope these are of some help. Remember to visit the Mod Resource Web
at http://www.armory.com/~greebo/mod.html

I can be contacted at greebo@armory.com.

Good luck!

John H.

 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

Hints for Composers
-- ToalNkor / Realtech

  TIP FOR LOADING EITHER LEFT OR RIGHT CHANNEL OF A STEREO SAMPLE :

  Load the sample as usual and then follow these steps :

  If you want the LEFT channel : Just divide the length by 2
  by using Ctrl-F. This will delete one byte out of two, and therefore
  only the "first" sample (the left one) will remain !

  If you want the RIGHT channel : Cut the first and last byte of the
  sample (By looping it and using Ctrl-B and Ctrl-L). If the original
  sample sise was X, then the actual size should be X-2. From now on,
  just follow the same indications as for the left channel and tadaa...
  your Right channel sample is ready for use !

  After all these operations, dont't forget to multiply the mixfrequency
  by two to get the original samplingfrequency back !

 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

 Hints for New Composers
 -- StereoMan

 1) The easiest way to produce flanging like effect is to play same sample in
    two channels (they must have exactly the same pan-position) and lower or
    higher the playing frequency of one of the samples - ie:

           1            2                             2          (1 is same)
    ... .. .. Xpp... .. .. Xpp              ... .. .. Xpp
    퀈xx ii xx ...퀈xx ii xx EE1      or      퀈xx ii xx u11
    ... .. .. ...... .. .. ...              ... .. .. u00
                                                          u00 and so on.
    <pp>  has the same value in the two channels.
    <ii>  is your instrument number.
    <xxx> is the note you play the sample in.

 2) You can use the above mentioned effect, but instead of having the channels
    with the same pan position you can put them as Left and Right (full) ie:

    ... .. .. X00... .. .. XFF|
                . . .

    this will give you a smooth three dimensional sound.

    Note: This effect has not been tested on SurrounD equipment - the results
          are li'l unpredictable.


  3) Quite a good way to make reverb-like-echos is shown below:

     Let's say You have some sequence playing in one channel. Put the same into
     another channel and insert one or two (or more) rows before the beginning.
     Now set all volumes to zero (alt-v) and clear volumes which are not
     associated with notes (alt-w). Then apply a Dx0 effect (x=1..4 or more)
     for example:

     쿻1. i. .. ...... .. .. ...          The results are very good.
     쿻2. i. .. ...쿻1. i. 00 D20          Once you get used to this you can
     ... .. .. ...쿻2. i. 00 D..          achieve !very! smooth sound.
     쿻3. i. .. ...... .. .. D..
     ... .. .. ...쿻3. i. 00 D..          The samples must not be too short
     쿻4  i. .. ...... .. .. D..          so Dx0 can take effect.
     ... .. .. ...쿻4. i. 00 D..


  4) If you make the above channels with different pan positions (x22 and xDD)
     or (x80, s91) - the results are stunning :)


  5) Take your time to read the whole help (yes, the whole of it) - you'll
     be surprised to find what hides under your keyboard :)


  6) Make your tunes as small as possible. People are not quite happy to find
     they have a 3 or 4 Megs of crap on their already full HD drives.
     Remember: the smaller = the easiest to spread.


  7) NEVER start tracking if you're not into the right mood to track. You'll
     only loose time and perhaps make another crappy tune.


  8) Funny, but I've found that making your own color scheme truly inspires!


  9) Experiment! Play around with the effects, envelopes and NNAs. They all
     make music sound more realistic!



                            George Marinov a.k.a. StereoMan - <georgehm@bse.bg>

 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

Hints for composers
-- Ilpo Karkkainen

- If you listen only one kind of music, it will shut your mind from others. Be
  versatile. When you listen lots of different kinds of music styles, it also
  makes your composing a lot more wider and colorful.

- When listening to music generally, try to sometimes consentrate to something
  specific, for example backing vocals or drums. It helps you realize the whole.
  It's also good to try listen what different notes there are in a chord that
  you hear. At least to me, it has been very helful in chord progression.

- Details make the whole. Use them wisely, though. Too much details make the
  song sound bad. I've noticed that in some of my songs.

 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

                            Onix4MAN's hints


        1) CLEANING A WAV FILE UNDER IT.
        2) CREATING NEW SAMPLES WITH IT.
        3) 3 (4?) METHODS TO MAKE YOUR MODS SOUND MORE SPACIAL..
        


1) CLEANING A BAD SAMPLE UNDER IT:
-----------------------------------

To clean up samples that click at their start (or end) because the waveform
has an error at its start (still or end), without going under a wav-editor:

        -turn on Loop
        -start the loop at 100 bytes for samples > 10000 kb
                            50 bytes for samples < 10000 kb
        -then do 'ALT-B': Pre-Loop Cut Sample
        -then turn off the loop
        -do the same at the end of the sample with 'ALT-L' if the wav clicks
         at its end

        The numbers of bytes given is OK for often met clicks, if your
        sample is really bad, just increase it... ;)



2) CREATING NEW SAMPLES WITH IT:
--------------------------------

    -You simply have to edit one pattern composed of several samples.
     (eg. Compose a Break-Beat on that pattern)
    -Put this pattern at order 000.
    -Save this module.
    -Restart IT in Disk-Writer mode.
    -Load your module.
    -Play it: it is now being written as a wav file on your disk.
    -Restart IT normally.
    -Load that new sample and use hint 1) if it has a blank at its end to
     shorten it.


3) 3 (4?) METHODS TO MAKE YOUR MODS SOUND MORE SPACIAL..:
---------------------------------------------------------

  -Let's start with the 4th method: it's the Surround.. :) 
   But if your card can't afford surround.. Use one of the 3 following
   methods:

 These methods are in fact three times the same but with 3 different way.
 I'm sure you knew at least the first (and probably the 2nd too) ;)
 These 3 methods require 2 channels.

For the 2 firsts, you have to set the panning of the Sample/Instrument
somewhere (in 'Order list and panning' or on the Sample List [F3], but
you'll have to load twice the sample, or on the Instrument List [F4],
or on the Pattern Editor itself [F2], but you busy the volume column or
the command column..)
In the following examples, I've set the Panning in the Volume column
(press the key below Escape to do this)
             
     a)   row        CHANNEL 1         CHANNEL 2
          000      C-5 01 00 .00     ... .. .. .00
          001      ... .. .. .00     C-5 01 64 .00
          002      ... .. .. .00     ... .. .. .00


     b)   row        CHANNEL 1         CHANNEL 2
          000      C-5 01 00 .00     C-5 01 64 SDx
          001      ... .. .. .00     ... .. .. .00

        With 'x < Speed Value' This second method is more precise!
        You can even write SD0 (ie. 0 as x)


     c) The last method is the more interesting if you knew the others,
        because it does waste your volume column neither the command
        column! So they remain free for other effects! :)

     * This time, you have to be controlled by Instruments (F12 to select
       this).
     * Then you will need exactly the too same instruments:
         - On F4 Screen, select a blank lign and type 'Alt-P'
         - Type the lign where your instrument is... Validate!..
     * Then push the panning button:
         -set the pan to 00 for your first instrument
         -set the pan to 64 for your second instrument
     * Then FOR ONLY ONE of those 2 instruments:
       Press the Pitch Button and go to edit the envelop:

           -First node: tick  00 ;)
                        value 00

           -Second node: tick  01
                         value 'Whatever_you_want', (-)1 or (-)2 suggested

           -Last (3rd) node: tick  02
                             value 00

      Doing this, you've created a delay between your 2 instruments.
      To end, place them on the same row on the pattern editor (F2):

          row        CHANNEL 1         CHANNEL 2
          000      C-5 01 .. .00     C-5 02 .. .00
          001      ... .. .. .00     ... .. .. .00

        Notes:
        ======
        *) You don't have to set the pan to its maximum (00 and 64/FF).
        You had better do it for one of your smp/inst. And then, for another
        choose 16 and 48 (decimal), or...

        *) The third method works because we do not hear the pitch change
        in most cases since it is quite quick, but I suggest you do not
        use this method for a piano because it's an example where you'll
        hear the pitch change and it will sound very ugly: BAAaah! ;)
        But it work with Violin and many others.
        It may also depend on the speed of your song (time between ticks)..


                                - Nicolas ARROUET (Onix4MAN) o4m@mail.cpod.fr

 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

Hints for new composers.
- Nacho Segura

About quality of sound, cognitive science, a more convenient composing, sound
experiments and degrees of freedom.

1) Some composers (trackers) recommend to work with 128 rows and half the
speed (the less the faster). It's supposed that this gives you more control over
the tracks, but that's not totally true.

     - The track doubles its length, so you see the half. You have to move
     more times and jump more lines every time. Is it important? Register in a
     sheet (or two) how many times do you jump through the pattern.

     - I've examined several songs that use this technique, and this is my
     conclusion: THEY DON'T NEED IT!!! Even lines are empty or have
     effects.

The small amount of control gained doesn't compensate the ergonomical
problems. The easiest the best, less interferences between you and the music.
Rookies could think that it only makes you be slower. This is a problem, but
it's not THE PROBLEM. When you forget twelve times what the hell did you write
in top of the pattern and in which track you'll understand...


2) Work. Lots of trackers are proud to say that they are very fast. That's not a
virtue, it means less work, less variety, a shorter melody, much less chords, no
harmony, sounds not perfectly adjusted, and the most important thing:
Repetitions until the Eternity. You haved lasted two months writing this four
minutes long song? Show me what you did, I'm really interested!


3) Discover Scroll-Lock. Load a song, press play, see what happens with the
cursor... and press some notes.
Cool!!! Isn't it?


4) Never use 8-bits or low-quality samples if you can avoid it. The quality of a
song depends on the quality of sounds. "More memory than expected" is better
than "crappier than expected".


5) Analogic synthetised instruments can produce strange interactions. An
example: WARMPAD.PAT (a Gravis Patch) sounds really nice, but this chord
produces a strange noise that doesn't exists when we play the same notes
separately: C-3, D#-3 and F-3. Upper octaves don t provocate this phenomenon.
NOTE: There are several versions of Gravis patches.


6) Use a global volume as high as possible. It not only gives you a better
signal-to-noise relation. It also gives to IT more degrees of freedom for
volume fades.
Make an experiment: Plug the headphones directly to your soundcard, set the
global volume to 5-8 and make a fade out from 64 to 0 (don't use envelopes,
make it in the volume comlumn of the pattern). You should listen the volume
JUMPING (not sliding, jumping!). In Scream Tracker is even worse.


7) Don't be messy allocating tracks (channels, columns... you know). All the
percussion grouped in adjacent tracks, the chord grouped, an empty column (or
more) separating every group of instruments, so you can write fastly this new
idea appeared two seconds ago, without having to go to "Track 21". It also
allows you to write and remix fastly. Everything has its own place and you can
disorder and reallocate patterns without knowing if that loop has been cut, or
where do I have to put a NoteCut command (^^^) to shutdown the analogic
looped bass. It seems more complex when you begin (pattern is wider), but it's
much better, easier to use.


8) Print the manual and bind it. And when you have done this, RTFM (you
know, READ THE #%&@$# MANUAL!!). You'll be surprised.


9) Make an economic contribution. I think he has worked hardly and Impulse
Tracker is the only tracker that gives tracker songs a proffesional sound and
accoustic. Don't be apologized for sending eight dollars. Is better than zero.
Even if you don't want the ITWAV.DRV you should contribute, at least with a
simbolic quantity. He has won it.

 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

Hints for composers
-- Joakim "Acoustic" Back

1)  Dont use the same bassline, piano chords or whatever the whole song.
    Remember that a real drummer wont just sit there like a drummachine,
    nature will make him tap sometimes and he realy wants to make
    some fills sometimes.

2)  Feel the music. You dont use hammering industrial drums in a soft,
    smooth gentle song. And dont place a soft panflute in a blasting
    hardcore song.

3)  Use the right volume. Keeping the volume low on an instrument and then
    suddenly higher creates a feel of power and rush. Use it.

4)  There are different ways to make a solo stand out.
    a) high volume. Having a high volume will instantly keep it in the
       focus. Be aware that to high volume will make it stand out to much
       and maybe not fit in the picture anymore.

    b) high or low pitch. If you have a lot low and middle note instruments
       the solo will be clear and bright as high pitched. As said in other
       hints, keeping the others too low or too high will sound terrible.

5)  If you play the piano and have a midi keyboard - use the midi support!
    This will make you see that you play the piano with a lot more feeling
    than when you track a song with the computer-keyboard.

6)  Accept failure. Dont get all angry just because your song went totaly
    nuts. This happends all the time. Your songs will be better and better
    the more you use IT.

7)  Use IT alot! Play around with IT, make crazy songs. This will make you
    learn ITs features and ways to make nice effects. You wont understand IT
    by reading the effects from Axx to Zxx, or reading hints like these, but
    mostly by using the effects and using IT, only training will get you to
    the top. IT is like a sport, people that dont use it, dont get a thing
    about it, but when you get the hang of it, its going to flow.

8)  Learn IT in steps. Begin with some simple samples and a few patterns,
    then learn a few simple effects like Exx and Fxx. When you have learned
    them, go to a new step. Wait with the instruments (F4).

9)  Make a keychart. Write down some of the keys on a piece of paper, after 
    a few days you will probably know most of them. When you know almost
    all you will understand that using only the keyboard is MUCH faster than
    the mouse.

Thanks for reading, I hope it will help you somehow. 
/ Acoustic
n98joab@tycho.helsingborg.se

 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

Hints for Composers
- Maarten Van Stien
- Crystal Score / The Black Lotus

He! ye like simple solutions? Here's one!

You might have used the diskwriter for simple drumloops! You also might have
loaded the wav in programs like Soundforge (the king!) to add nice nice stuff
like reverb, eq, dynamics etc...

As you might guess when you write one period containing a drumloop and you
add reverb, then the start of the sample doesn't have reverb at all, while the
end of the drumloop as tons of reverb. Apart from the fact that it sounds lame
in most cases, LOOPING the sample sounds like hell! So what you do is
diskwriting the same loop twice or more. Then add reverb in your sample editor
and you'll notice that the second period contains the 'reverb' of the first
period. This second period can be looped perfectly. As long as you know where
to find the looping-points!

Now, for simple drumloops with a little bit of reverb it's dead simple.
But for  complex loops with TONS of reverb/delay/crap&more it might be quit
difficult!

Solution:
* make an extra .IT with the same BPM/frames as your drumloop .IT
* add a simple, short and immediatly-starting sample at the beginning of each
  period (in most cases: on pos 000, 016, 032, 048 etc.). These are some sorta
  metronome instruments I guess..
* diskwrite
* find the first sample of the 'metronome-instruments' in a sample editor.
* add markers at that place.
* Mute/Silence the samples so that your metronome-wav ONLY contains markers
* copy your complex drumloops or whatever-loops in mem. like ctrl-c 
* MIX to the metronome wav.

Now you have markers in your complex drumloops! And if you did the above stuff
right, you have perfect loops!

Make sure the metronome-samples start immediatly! Otherwise use the offset
command (C-4 10 63 O10) or something..

ok.. have a nice diskwrite!

Crystal Score/The Black Lotus
Maarten.Vanstrien@student-kmt.hku.nl
